/*
GIT commans
*/

#git status

know about the status of existing git repository .
if does not exist then fatal error will come that says not a git repository or any parent directory found.
if git repository exist(.git file is present) then it will track and list the files which is not added in the current branch and 
it will show if commits has been done or not
if the files which are already added or chenges are in the files in the repository and yet to commit
it will show thos files also
if any file you removed using #git rm file name then it will make that file staged(as deleted) already.

how to make  directory as git repository?
#git init
is used to make a directory to a empty git repository(initialize a repository with empty git repository).
this command marks this repository as master(branch) or main branch or master repository.

how to add all the untracked files in git branch
#git add --a 
it will add all the new files or file you have made chenges to the staging area for commits

#git add file name
it will add the file to the current branch you are in

#git commit -m "comment for this commit"
it will add the files to the current branch of repository which are in stage area

#git log 
it will give the following kind of info like author name, commit checksum, time when it was commited and commit message
commit c9566e8806843f521239fce051e28a4d475af87a (HEAD -> master)
Author: nitesh dutt <niteshkumardutt@gmail.com>
Date:   Sun Aug 2 18:46:36 2020 +0530

    initial commit
	
to ignore any file which is coming untracked and not required to add in the repository
create .gitignore file and inside file write the files to be ignored
then git status will stop showing the files name you have written inside the .gitignore file and 
.gitignore file will start showing untracked.

we should add .gitignore file in the repository and commit it for future purpose.
to ignore all the files with some extension just do
write *.extension .gitignore file example *.log git will ignore all the files with log extension 

if any folder which empty or contains folder or files whose name is present inside .gitignore file git will not track it(folder will not show as untracked)
for showing untracked folder, folder should contain atleast one file inside

#git diff
is used to compare the difference between the changes in the file which are in staging area but not commited yet
and same file after staging gets modiied means the later changes not added in the staging area


#git diff --staged 
it compares the last commit changes with changes which are in staged area and not yet commited.

#git commit -a -m "comments to be added"
this command directly commits the changes you have done in files means you are skipping the adding of modified
data to stage area or you can say direct commit but if some file is untracked it will not be commited you have to 
specifically add those files to the staging area using #git add --a ot #git add . or #git add filename command.

#git rm filename
it removes the file from the branch and stage it automatically to deleted state

